 Gu Bin: Contemporary Chinese Writers Don’t Know What Humans Are 

Zhouqi News Weekly: When mentioning you, the topic of "Contemporary Chinese literature is rubbish" comes to mind. Bypassing the "garbage", let's start today's conversation with another interesting judgment of yours. You said that before 1949, Chinese literature, that is, modern literature, was Wuliangye; after 1949, Chinese literature, that is, contemporary literature, was Erguotou. Doesn't this smack of anachronism? Because we know that even in the same era, there will be different writers.
Gu Bin: That is because around 1949, great changes took place in the Chinese literary world. In the 1930s and 1940s, China was much more advanced in literature than some European countries. After 1949, China bid farewell to modern literature. Before 1949, some Chinese writers hoped that literature could help China to be liberated and that literature should serve politics. The more representative writers were He Qifang and Zang Kejia. Looking at it today, the path they took has been proved to be wrong, because literature should serve language, art, and aesthetics. Today, Chinese literature is basically no longer associated with politics.
Zhouqi News Weekly: You published "History of Chinese Literature in the 20th Century" last year. According to reports, you judge and evaluate Chinese literature from the perspective of world literature?
Ku Bin: Yes. In the first half of the 20th century, Chinese literature was comparable to that of other countries in the world, such as France, Italy, and Spain, no problem. From 1949 to 1979, I am afraid that it can only be compared with the literature of Eastern European countries. After 1979, there must be no problem with Chinese poetry, and Chinese poets in the 1980s can be compared with important poets in the world. From the perspective of drama, China made some modernization efforts in the 1980s, but the achievements could not be compared with contemporary world dramas, because Chinese dramas are basically imitated works. From the point of view of novels, in the 1980s, China still produced some good works, such as Zhang Jie's novels on women's issues. Her thoughts were very close to the international values ​​at that time, so her novels were easily accepted by European readers, and she was very popular in Germany at that time. Wang Meng's novels also have international standards. But in the 1980s, the achievements of Chinese literature were mainly poetry, not novels.
Zhouqi News Weekly: What about the future?
Gu Bin: From 1992 onwards, Chinese literature, like world literature, has slowly entered the market. Most German readers do not read German literature. 70% of literary works published in Germany are not German literature. German readers like to read American novels and Chinese novels. why? Because after 1945, European novelists no longer wrote any real stories, and for novels, it was no longer the era of storytelling. The only writers who still write stories are Americans and Chinese. This is why American and Chinese novels are so popular with German readers. But these readers do not include intellectuals, nor do they include Sinologists. The literary literacy and cultural level of these readers are relatively low.
In Germany we call popular literature works of ham. Ham, if you buy it today, you can still eat it a year later, and you can also eat it when you are traveling on the road. German readers like to take a book with them when they travel. The book should be thicker and larger, like a ham. Mo Yan, Yu Hua, Su Tong, and Bi Feiyu, the books they published in China became ham after they arrived in Germany. German intellectuals and writers will feel very disgusted after reading these books. They will feel that these books are not written and published for me, but for people who do not know real literature. Make it fun for them to have fun. Therefore, contemporary Chinese novels are not serious literature in Germany at all.
Contemporary Chinese poets are different. Germans, like Chinese, rarely read poetry. But no matter which city, no matter which cultural center, if Chinese poets are invited to give a reading or hold a symposium, at least 40 people will come, sometimes as many as 100 or 250 people. If Chinese novelists come, at most 10 or 20 readers will come.
Contemporary Chinese writers don't know what a human being is
Zhouqi News Weekly: The writers you mentioned just now are considered serious writers in China, and they were all once avant-garde. How did you become a popular writer in Germany?
Ku Bin: Because they tell stories. Mo Yan's "Life and Death Fatigue" is also specially written in Zhanghui style. European writers usually write about one person in their novels, but Mo Yan’s novels involve dozens of people, which is unbearable. Contemporary Chinese novelists can't write about people's hearts, they don't know what people are at all. What they write are all human appearances. Contemporary Chinese novelists cannot describe the taste of a city. When Wang Anyi writes about Shanghai, what she writes is a very abstract Shanghai. Contemporary Chinese novelists like to tell stories that have already been told, and they have little imagination.
Why don't we need stories? We read newspapers, watch TV, and listen to the news. There are stories in our lives that writers can't think of. What we need is not stories, but revelations. But contemporary Chinese writers can’t reveal anything to us, why a certain thing happens, why a certain place has a certain characteristic, why some people jump off a building, why some people are disappointed in life, what path people should take, What should people do.

Zhouqi News Weekly: To answer your question, shouldn’t it be expressed through a story?
Gu Bin: It should be seen whether the writer has thoughts or not. Writers these days write for the money. They will not write one sentence less when writing, but will definitely write one more sentence. For writing one more sentence, they can get a little more money. When German translators translate Chinese novels, they have to "turn to death". The works of Chinese writers translated by German translators are all free translations, all of which are reduced. Chinese novels are too long.
From the perspective of German literary circles, American and Chinese novels are popular novels.
Chinese contemporary writer: He just wants to touch a woman with big breasts
Zhouqi News Weekly: Are there many Chinese novels translated into Germany?
Ku Bin: A lot. The books of Weihui, Mianmian, and Hongying sold particularly well, because most readers in Germany are women.
Zhouqi News Weekly: The "garbage" you mentioned in 2007 actually refers to the works of these female writers?
Gu Bin: Yes.
Zhouqi News Weekly: If the books of Wei Hui and Mian Mian are rubbish, how do you evaluate the works of Yu Hua and Ge Fei, the generation of Chinese writers?
Gu Bin: They are not pioneers at all, they are backward. They are all telling stories. For example, Ge Fei's latest novel is still telling a story. Another problem is that many Chinese writers, the narrators in their novels have an attitude towards women that we cannot stand. In their works, men have no way of understanding women. Women are meat. For example, in Mo Yan's "The Country of Wine", when a man meets a woman with big breasts, he wants to touch her. When I open a book and see a sentence like this, I immediately close the book. I can't accept their attitude towards women.
Contemporary Chinese Novelists Should Be Silent for Twenty or Thirty Years
Zhouqi News Weekly: In your opinion, there are serious problems in contemporary Chinese literature, like a sick person, how to cure them?
Gu Bin: First, they should be silent for 20 or 30 years; second, they should continue to write, and put the work in a drawer after 20 or 30 years; third, they should Learn foreign languages; fourth, they should read foreign original works; fifth, they should meet and communicate with foreign writers, and should not be introduced through us. Many sinologists have no literary background.
Chinese contemporary poets have written the best poems
Weekly News Weekly: After Gao Xingjian, who are the Chinese writers who will win the Nobel Prize, or which contemporary Chinese writers do you admire?
Gu Bin: Poets: Bei Dao, Duoduo, Yang Lian, Wang Xiaoni, Zhai Yongming. They can be compared with the best poets in the world.
Zhouqi News Weekly: Please comment on contemporary Chinese novelists in detail.
Gu Bin: Ge Fei, "Lost Boat" is good, but I don't like the later works, they are all about telling stories. Su Tong, same problem. Yu Hua, I don't like his avant-garde works. I prefer the humanitarianism in his works, but I don't like the recent novels. "Brothers" is quite dirty. Sun Ganlu is playing with literature.
Zhouqi News Weekly: Have you read the works of post-80s writers such as Han Han and Zhang Yueran?

Gu Bin: I know them. There should be a Chinese who told me that I should read them, but no Chinese writer or scholar recommended them to me. I have also seen some, and some of them sent me their works, and they wrote in the simplest language. A new generation is likely to have their contribution. But I still have to think about it.
Zhouqi News Weekly: Last question, who is the contemporary Chinese writer you most admire?
Gu Bin: This is a very troublesome question, because Bei Dao is an American, Duoduo is a Dutchman, and Yang Lian is a New Zealander. Are they still Chinese writers? Let me answer you like this: Zhai Yongming. She is a Chinese poet living in China.
Weekly News Weekly: One more question, if the scope is extended to the entire 20th century, including those dead writers?
Ku Bin: Lu Xun.
